
## The physics of squash balls

Squash balls come in many different types, marked by the colour of, and number of dots on their side. The balls are described by their "Speed", from slow to fast. A slow ball is less bouncy and is harder to warm up  through impact (and thus keep warm). A fast ball will bounce more without warm up and warm up more easily through impact (thus staying warm).

There is a big difference in hang time (think bounce height) of the squash ball according to it's temperature and constitution. This difference in hang time has a marked effect on the nature of the game played. THe constitution is determined by the ball type used. THe temeprature is an equilibrium between the heat generated by deformation of the ball (think ball hitting the wall) and the heat loss to the surrounding air, wall, strings and hands. The WSF states the ball should reach equilibrium of 45°C in use. When you hold the ball in your hand, it feels noticable hot at this temperature. I wonder how many people know what that feels like.





The World Squash Feredation specifies the size, weight and rebound resilience for the double yellow and single yellow squash balls (amongst other things). 

The double yellow dot is the slowest ball.
## Thoughts
What does the difference in ball mean in real terms?

Squash ball speed (Fast to slow)


Factors
Ball Bounce is proportional to ball temp and bouncieness of ball
Ball Temperature
    * Court temperature (Loss of heat)
    * Application of heat (impact by rackets)

* How do you know if a ball is warm?

```go
bounce = 
```


## Notes
Playing Temp: 45 degress (No citation) (Equilibrium reached)

"This temperature is where equilibrium is reached,
and the thermal energy lost to the strings, walls, ﬂoor, and air
equals the energy gained from deformation"
"Squash Ball bounce consists of two factors. Their
behavior is therefore partly controlled by the wall material
and partly by the air inside. The rubber used for squash balls
also produces interesting changes of the dynamic behavior
with temperature, which is the reason that squash balls need
to be warmed up before a game starts"
"This behavior shows that the rubber material
dominates the rebound behavior and that the normal warming up process at the start of a squash
game is important to raise the temperature of the rubber rather than to increase the internal air"
"The most important feature of squash balls is that they
have low rebound resilience. The resilience of a material can
be thought of as its ability to absorb energy elastically on
loading and then to release that energy when the material is
unloaded. When a squash ball makes contact with racket
strings, a wall, or the ﬂoor of a court, some of its energy is
stored elastically in the rubber, some in the racket strings,
and some in the increased internal air pressure. Some energy
will be lost as sound, but more of the energy becomes inter-
nal thermal energy in the ball itself. This energy has two
effects—the air inside the ball becomes pressurized and the
rubber compound from which the ball is made becomes more
resilient. As a result, the ball bounces higher. "
[Dynamic Behaviour of Squash Balls](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/253254383_The_dynamic_behavior_of_squash_balls)


[Squash Ball Specification](http://www.worldsquash.org/ws/rackets-balls/racket-ball-specifications)

Rebound resilience is simply a measurement of the height a ball bounces off a hard surface. The same balls are conditioned first to 23oC and then to 45oC and dropped from a height of 100 inches onto a concrete floor (which in both cases must be at 21–25oC). At 23oC the balls must rebound at least 12 inches; at 45oC between 26 and 33 inches. (The 1995 amendment was to these figures: previously the rebound specification at 23oC was 16–17 inches and at 45oC 26–28 inches.)
Eventually equilibrium is reached where heat loss to strings, wall, floor, and air is equal to heat gained from deformation. This point is normally at around 45oC
The actual ball temperature reached in play varies according to two main factors: the temperature of the court and the ability of the players. The point at which the ball temperature reaches equilibrium is in fact an excess over the ambient temperature of the court. So if the court is at only 5oC, the ball may only reach 35oC. 
[Squash Player - Balls](http://www.squashplayer.co.uk/squash_balls.htm)


Newton's Law of Cooling. This law states that the rate of heat loss of a body is proportional to the difference in temperatures between the body and its surroundings
[Rate of Temperature Change between an object and the atmosphere](https://physics.stackexchange.com/questions/53022/is-rate-of-temperature-change-constant)


[Specific Heat Capacity of Butyl Rubber: 1.85 kJ/kgoC]